---
layout: post
title:  "Bye bye 2020"
date:   2020-12-30 08:45:06 +0000
categories: general
---

I made some [resolutions](https://blog.colmprunty.com/blog/resolutions/) at the beginning of this year. It was a weird year, how did that go?

1. No sugar

`Read these words back to me as I board a plane for Dublin in December.`

Haha. Ok sure. Both to the sugar thing and to the concept of boarding a plane, which I haven't done for precisely 365 days. Lockdown was tough on the habit of snacking and the supermarket was the only place open. I could write an entire post charting my weight and the reasons it went up and down.

2. Less alcohol

Well, I don't really drink at home unless people are over so this one pretty much resolved itself, having been at home alone for a year.

3. Running related stuff

I actually did _loads_ of running this year. Once I got over the hip injury in March, just in time for Lockdown Classic, I started to rack them up as running in the park was basically the only thing I was able to do. I'm starting to feel a little twinge in the hip, same as last winter, which, once again, in my tradition of never learning, is probably due to scaling up to 50km/week. This year I got through 1300km in 169 runs. No races, other than a virtual Vitality 10k which I did for the shirt, and no PRs.

I've signed up for a few for next year, which may or may not happen, as well as putting myself in for my annual London Marathon rejection.

4. Bike more than half my commutes

Well, ha, I biked something like 97% of my commutes this year, as my last commute was on March 11. Saved £280.50, which isn't bad for 3 months. Scaling it up would be over a grand. My bike is currently decaying in the corridor of my flat.

5. Chinese

I have maintained a Duolingo streak for the year, and I'm pretty certain I've gotten vaguely better. I've nearly finsihed the tree, at which point I'll move onto Rosetta Stone, Netflix with subititles and HSK past papers. Didn't end up doing HSK 3, and I'm going to claim it's because all the exam centres were closed. Also because of the below.

6. Secret goal #6

This was "have a baby", and he arrived on September 28, between lockdowns. He is a large boy and sleeps reasonably well. I did not anticipate him accompanying me to work every day.

7. Less tech

Maybe a bit. Getting into mailing lists instead of mindlessly browsing. Started emailing articles to my Kindle instead of reading them on a backlit screen. Got through 25 books for the year. 

I'll make some new resolutions tomorrow. 