---
layout: post
title:  "Twenty Twenty One In Review"
date:   2021-12-31 18:32:18 +0000
categories: general
---

Looks like I did resolutions in December 2020, at the height of Covid. Now that it's December 2021, at the height of Covid, it's time to see how they went.

`Get a coronavirus vaccine`

Well, I got three of these. I did write that before June would be nice, and behold, May 27, first dose (Pfizer). I was right, it was nice. Managed to get a second dose (Pfizer) on July 17, seven days and ninety minutes before flying to Ireland, who would have made me quarantine if I'd had a second dose earlier than seven days before arrival. Also nice. Third dose (Moderna) on December 12, after some glitch allowed the under-40s to book slightly early. I've managed to not - as far as I know - get Covid at all. The UK is currently an Omicron-riddled hellscape and I have to fly there on Sunday so we'll see how that goes.

`Get the holy fuck out of London`

Reader, I got the holy fuck out of London. To Dublin, twice. Oh and Galway once (yesterday). Did not go to Canada, Portugal, nobody went to China.

`Running`

Injury free 2021. 

More than 1500km for the year? How about 2,383.4km for the year.

More than 120km/month? Lowest volume month is this one, December, at 148km. Highest was August, 234km, and eight months out of 12 were more than 200km. I ran about 7km at lunchtime almost every day, helped by working from home almost every day. And commute running when the office was open. 

I did successfully crack 90 minutes in the half marathon with a 1:28:49 in August, but it's slightly disappointing as I spent the three weeks prior in Dublin eating constantly. 

Got an official 40:08 for 10k in September, but I don't think I did even that well. Didn't deserve a sub-40 in that one frankly. Dropped out of another 10k in December for various reasons.

`Chinese`

Not been the best year for it. Spent time painstakingly translating childrens' books, and doing flashcards, so I've not been static, but time has been at a premium, and things that need prolonged concentration are the easiest to drop. Did not do HSK3, SOAS seem to have dropped it entirely.

`Health`

Sugar free? Haha, no.

62kg? I actually did weigh this for one day before an upswing, so box checked I guess.

`Do not have any more children`

Successfully accomplished. Intend to lock this one in surgically next year. 

`I’m putting in my Canadian permanent residence application next week.`

Not strictly a resolution, but this got approved surprisingly quick.