---
layout: post
title:  "2022 in the Mirror"
date:   2022-12-31 21:34:47 +0000
categories: general
---

First, let's do a monthly overview of what I can remember happening in 2022. It was a long year.

## January
Nothing special, honestly. Off to a good start here.

## February
Tentative steps into selling our flat were rudely interrupted by a giant windstorm that took out all the fences in the back. Would we be able to fix them before lining up viewings? No. The giving away of stuff begins.

## March
Everyone got COVID. It wasn't _that_ bad but didn't make for a great birthday. House viewings (after we were all better) led to a flood of offers in a couple of days. In hindsight, this was maybe the best possible time to sell. 

I flew to Toronto to cash in my permanent residence. Then I flew to Edmonton for the weekend to hang about. Then back to Toronto. Then back to London. This was a tiring experience, but I saw a hockey game. 

## April
The fences get fixed, nobody cares except for the £600 hole in my bank account. Ate one or more Colin the Caterpillar cakes for the Child's birthday. 

## May
Did a race for the first time since COVID was a thing. It went well! I'm not sure what happened for the rest of the month but I seem to have just stopped for a while here. 

Also went to Dublin for a bit.

## June
Saw my first gig in four or five years, and then two more in quick succession, all in the Brixton Academy. 

## July
One foot out the door. Went to the final of the Women's Euros with England v Germany at Wembley, but the Child did not have the stamina for extra time so we had to flee. 

## August
Chaos. Family leaves. London hit 40 degrees celsius. I have work leaving drinks. Ran a marathon for no particular reason. In one way or another I got rid of every single item in the flat, given away, binned, sold, boxed up and shipped, put carefully into a soft crate (cats), eaten, forgotten, used, and on and on and on and on. House sale is finalised. I fly to Toronto and stay there. 

## September
As little as possible. The Boy turned two, we had a small party while I waited to get my driver's licence for SEVEN HOURS. 

## October
Did a half marathon, new PB. Switched work teams, now mostly working with a Paris-based one. Remains to be seen whether this was a good idea. Got bitten by a squirrel. 

## November
It snowed. Everyone got very sick. I don't think these things are related. 

## December
Snow, cold, still somehow managed to eke out 200 km running. 